PD-652: Add AWS Marketplace documentation (#971)
portworx/pxdocs: content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/cloud/aws/aws-marketplace/_index.md

---
title: AWS Marketplace
keywords: Install, on cloud, EKS, Marketplace, Elastic Kubernetes Service, AWS, Amazon Web Services, Kubernetes, k8s
description: Install Portworx on an AWS EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service) cluster via the Amazon Marketplace.
weight: 2
noicon: true
series: px-k8s
---

This topic explains how to install Portworx via the Amazon Marketplace on EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service). Follow the steps in this topic in order.

> # Preparing your EKS Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Prepare your EKS Cluster
```

> ## Granting Portworx the needed AWS permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Grant Portworx the needed AWS permissions
```

{{% content "shared/portworx-install-with-kubernetes-cloud-aws-1-prepare.md" %}}

## Configure IAM permissions

> 

Reviewer: I think we need some context here. something like this

```suggestion
Once you've done X, you must configure IAM permissions in Y. You can configure these permissions in multiple ways, choose the configuration method most appropriate for you: 
```

### Configure with eksctl

> Before you can create an IAMServiceAccount for Portworx, you must enable the IAM OIDC Provider for your EKS cluster.
> Make sure to replace `<clustername>` with your EKS cluster and change the `region` if you are not running in us-east-1
> 
> ```text
> eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --region=us-east-1 --cluster=<clustername> --approve
> ```
> 
> Now you can create the IAMServiceAccount with the appropriate permissions. (you need these permissions to send metering data to AWS)
> Make sure to change the namespace if you are not deploying in `kube-system` and make sure to replace `<clustername>` with your EKS cluster
> 
> ```text
> eksctl create iamserviceaccount --name portworx-aws --namespace kube-system --cluster <clustername> --attach-policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringFullAccess \
> --attach-policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringRegisterUsage --approve --override-existing-serviceaccounts
> ```
> 
> This will create an `IAMServiceAccount` on amazon `https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#/roles` and
> will create a `ServiceAcccount` in the requested namespace, which we will pass to our helmchart in the next section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Before you can create an IAMServiceAccount for Portworx, you must enable the IAM OIDC Provider for your EKS cluster. Enter the following `eksctl` command, replacing `<clustername>` with your EKS cluster and changing the `region` if you are not running in us-east-1:

     ```text
     eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --region=us-east-1 --cluster=<clustername> --approve
     ```

2. Create the IAMServiceAccount with the appropriate permissions. You need these permissions to send metering data to AWS. Enter the following `eksctl` command, changing the namespace if you are not deploying in `kube-system` and replacing `<clustername>` with your EKS cluster:

     ```text
     eksctl create iamserviceaccount --name portworx-aws --namespace kube-system --cluster <clustername> --attach-policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringFullAccess \
     --attach-policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringRegisterUsage --approve --override-existing-serviceaccounts
     ```

     This creates an `IAMServiceAccount` on Amazon `https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#/roles` and will create a `ServiceAcccount` in the requested namespace, which you will pass to your Helm chart in the next section.
```

do we need to show the URL for clarity? Maybe we can link to it instead? I'll leave it up to you.

Author: i'll make it a call out doesn't need to be visible

### Configure with AWS CLI or AWS Console

> Make sure to use the correct `namespace` and `serviceaccount`
> 
> for AWS CLI go here: [AWS CLI] (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-service-account-iam-policy-and-role.html#aws-cli)
> 
> for AWS Console go here: [AWS Console] (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-service-account-iam-policy-and-role.html#aws-management-console)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure IAM permissions through the AWS CLI or console. For instructions on configuring these permissions, refer to the Amazon documentation:

* [AWS CLI] (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-service-account-iam-policy-and-role.html#aws-cli)
* [AWS Console] (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-service-account-iam-policy-and-role.html#aws-management-console)

Use the correct `namespace` and `serviceaccount` you defined in the steps above. 
```

## Install

> {{<info>}}
> **NOTE:** If you are not using instance privileges, you must also specify AWS environment variables in the helm install parameters. The environment variables to specify are:
> 
> `--set env="AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<id>\,AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<key>"`
> {{</info>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<info>}}
**NOTE:** If you are not using instance privileges, you must also specify AWS environment variables in the Helm install parameters. Specify the following environment variables:

`--set env="AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<id>\,AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<key>"`
{{</info>}}
```

> ### Adding the helm repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add the Helm repository
```

> To add the Portworx AWS Helm repository run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the Portworx AWS Helm repository by running the following `helm` command:
```

```text
helm repo add portworx https://raw.githubusercontent.com/portworx/aws-helm/master/stable
```

> ### Upgrading the helm repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upgrade the helm repository
```

> To upgrade the helm repository or to make sure you have the latest version of the helm chart
> run the following command:
> ```text
> helm repo update
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade the Helm repository or to make sure you have the latest version of the Helm chart,
run the following command:

```text
helm repo update
```
```

> #### Installing the helm chart from the repository
> To install the chart with the release name `my-release` run the following commands substituting relevant values for your setup:
> 
> ```text
> helm install my-release portworx/portworx --set storage.drives="type=gp2\,size=1000" --set serviceAccount="portworx-aws"
> ```

Reviewer: Why specify `my-release`? Can we make this more generic and use <brackets>?

```suggestion
#### Install the Helm chart from the repository

Install the chart with by running the following command, specifying your own release name and substituting relevant values for your setup:

```text
helm install <your-release-name> portworx/portworx --set storage.drives="type=gp2\,size=1000" --set serviceAccount="portworx-aws"
```
```

{{<info>}}
**NOTE**:

* `clusterName` should be a unique name identifying your Portworx cluster. The default value is `mycluster`, but it is suggested to update it with your naming scheme.
* `storage.drives` has been set to 1 TB, if you wish to have smaller storage drives please change that setting.
{{</info>}}

> ### Configuration options for the helm chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Helm chart configuration reference
```

| `storage.drives` | Semi-colon seperated list of drives to be used for storage (example: "/dev/sda;/dev/sdb"), to auto generate amazon disks use a list of drive specs (example: "type=gp2\,size=150";type=io1\,size=100\,iops=2000"). Make sure you escape the commas |
| `storage.journalDevice` | Journal device for Portworx metadata |
| `storage.maxStorageNodesPerZone` | Indicates the maximum number of storage nodes per zone. If this number is reached, and a new node is added to the zone, Portworx doesn’t provision drives for the new node. Instead, Portworx starts the node as a compute-only node. |
| `network.dataInterface` | Name of the interface <ethX> |
| `network.managementInterface` | Name of the interface <ethX> |
| `secretType` | Secrets store to be used can be aws-kms/k8s/none defaults to: k8s |
| `envVars` | semi-colon-separated list of environment variables that will be exported to portworx. (example: MYENV1=val1;MYENV2=val2) |
| `serviceAcccount` | Name of the created service account with required IAM permissions |

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`.

> ### Upgrading Portworx.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upgrade Portworx
```

> Once there is a new release available just run the same command you used to install but use `upgrade` instead.
> 
> Example:
> ```text
> helm upgrade my-release portworx/portworx --set storage.drives="type=gp2\,size=1000" --set serviceAccount="portworx-aws"
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Portworx releases new versions, you can upgrade Portworx by running the `upgrade` command and specifying the same options you used when you installed Portworx. For example:

```text
helm upgrade my-release portworx/portworx --set storage.drives="type=gp2\,size=1000" --set serviceAccount="portworx-aws"
```
```

> ### Un-installing Portworx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Uninstall Portworx
```

> 1. Edit the storage cluster.
> ```text
> kubectl -n <namespace> edit storagecluster <yourclustername>
> ```
> 
> 2. Add the following yaml under `spec:`
> 
>     ```text
>     deleteStrategy:
>       type: UninstallAndWipe
>     ```
> 
> 3. Save the spec and exit out.
> 4. Delete the storagecluster
> 
>     ```text
>     kubectl -n <namespace> delete storagecluster <yourclustername>
>     ```
> 
> 5. Once all the portworx related pods are gone
> un-install/delete the `my-release` deployment:
> 
>     ```text
>     helm delete my-release
>     ```
>     This command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform the following steps to uninstall Portworx:

1. Edit the storage cluster:

     ```text
     kubectl -n <namespace> edit storagecluster <yourclustername>
     ```

2. Add the following lines to your YAML `spec:` section:

    ```text
    deleteStrategy:
      type: UninstallAndWipe
    ```

3. Save the spec and exit out.
4. Delete the storagecluster:

    ```text
    kubectl -n <namespace> delete storagecluster <yourclustername>
    ```

5. Once all the portworx related pods are gone,
un-install/delete the `my-release` deployment:

    ```text
    helm delete my-release
    ```
    This command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.
```

---
title: AWS Marketplace
keywords: Install, on cloud, EKS, Marketplace, Elastic Kubernetes Service, AWS, Amazon Web Services, Kubernetes, k8s
description: Install Portworx on an AWS EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service) cluster via the Amazon Marketplace.
weight: 2
noicon: true
series: px-k8s
---

This topic explains how to install Portworx via the Amazon Marketplace on EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service). Follow the steps in this topic in order.

> # Prepare your EKS Cluster

Reviewer: Where does this lead? Every heading under it is a lower level. Is it supposed to divide sections?

```suggestion
## Prepare your EKS Cluster
```

> ## Grant Portworx the needed AWS permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Grant Portworx the needed AWS permissions
```

{{% content "shared/portworx-install-with-kubernetes-cloud-aws-1-prepare.md" %}}

> ## Configure IAM permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure IAM permissions
```

There are multiple ways to configure the IAM permissions and all of them are outlined below.

> ### Configure with eksctl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configure with eksctl
```

Make sure to replace `<clustername>` with your EKS cluster and change the `region` if you are not running in us-east-1

    ```text
    eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --region=us-east-1 --cluster=<clustername> --approve
    ```

2. Now you can create the IAMServiceAccount with the appropriate permissions. (you need these permissions to send metering data to AWS)
Make sure to change the namespace if you are not deploying in `kube-system` and make sure to replace `<clustername>` with your EKS cluster

    ```text
    eksctl create iamserviceaccount --name portworx-aws --namespace kube-system --cluster <clustername> --attach-policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringFullAccess \
    --attach-policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringRegisterUsage --approve --override-existing-serviceaccounts
    ```

This will create an `IAMServiceAccount` on the [AWS Console] (https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#/roles) and
will create a `ServiceAcccount` in the requested namespace, which we will pass to our helmchart in the next section

> ### Configure with AWS CLI or AWS Console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configure with AWS CLI or AWS Console
```

You can configure IAM permissions through the `AWS CLI` or `AWS Console`.
For instructions  on configuring these permissions, refer to the Amazon documentation:

* for AWS CLI go here: [AWS CLI] (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-service-account-iam-policy-and-role.html#aws-cli)
* for AWS Console go here: [AWS Console] (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-service-account-iam-policy-and-role.html#aws-management-console)

Use the correct `namespace` and `serviceaccount` you defined in the steps above.

## Install

{{<info>}}
**NOTE:** If you are not using instance privileges, you must also specify AWS environment variables in the Helm install parameters. Specify the following environment variables:

`--set env="AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<id>\,AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<key>"`
{{</info>}}

### Add the Helm repository
Add the Portworx AWS Helm repository by running the following `helm` command:
```text
helm repo add portworx https://raw.githubusercontent.com/portworx/aws-helm/master/stable
```

> ### Upgrade the helm repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrade the helm repository
```

To upgrade the Helm repository or to make sure you have the latest version of the Helm chart,
run the following command:

```text

> helm repo update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helm repo update
```
```

> ### Installing the helm chart from the repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installing the helm chart from the repository
```

To install the chart with the release name `my-release` run the following commands substituting relevant values for your setup:

```text
helm install my-release portworx/portworx --set storage.drives="type=gp2\,size=1000" --set serviceAccount="portworx-aws"
```

{{<info>}}
**NOTE**:

* `clusterName` should be a unique name identifying your Portworx cluster. The default value is `mycluster`, but it is suggested to update it with your naming scheme.
* `storage.drives` has been set to 1 TB, if you wish to have smaller storage drives please change that setting.
{{</info>}}

> ### Helm chart configuration reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Helm chart configuration reference
```

| `storage.drives` | Semi-colon seperated list of drives to be used for storage (example: "/dev/sda;/dev/sdb"), to auto generate amazon disks use a list of drive specs (example: "type=gp2\,size=150";type=io1\,size=100\,iops=2000"). Make sure you escape the commas |
| `storage.journalDevice` | Journal device for Portworx metadata |
| `storage.maxStorageNodesPerZone` | Indicates the maximum number of storage nodes per zone. If this number is reached, and a new node is added to the zone, Portworx doesn’t provision drives for the new node. Instead, Portworx starts the node as a compute-only node. |
| `network.dataInterface` | Name of the interface <ethX> |
| `network.managementInterface` | Name of the interface <ethX> |
| `secretType` | Secrets store to be used can be aws-kms/k8s/none defaults to: k8s |
| `envVars` | semi-colon-separated list of environment variables that will be exported to portworx. (example: MYENV1=val1;MYENV2=val2) |
| `serviceAcccount` | Name of the created service account with required IAM permissions |

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`.

> ### Upgrade Portworx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrade Portworx
```

When Portworx releases new versions, you can upgrade Portworx by running the `upgrade` command and
specifying the same options you used when you installed Portworx. For Example:

```text
helm upgrade my-release portworx/portworx --set storage.drives="type=gp2\,size=1000" --set serviceAccount="portworx-aws"
```

> ### Uninstall Portworx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Uninstall Portworx
```

---
title: AWS Marketplace
keywords: Install, on cloud, EKS, Marketplace, Elastic Kubernetes Service, AWS, Amazon Web Services, Kubernetes, k8s
description: Install Portworx on an AWS EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service) cluster via the Amazon Marketplace.
weight: 2
noicon: true
series: px-k8s
---

> This topic explains how to install Portworx via the Amazon Marketplace on EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service). Follow the steps in this topic in order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic provides instructions for installing Portworx via the Amazon Marketplace on EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service). Follow the steps in this topic in order.
```

---
title: AWS Marketplace
keywords: Install, on cloud, EKS, Marketplace, Elastic Kubernetes Service, AWS, Amazon Web Services, Kubernetes, k8s
description: Install Portworx on an AWS EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service) cluster via the Amazon Marketplace.
weight: 2
noicon: true
series: px-k8s
---

This topic explains how to install Portworx via the Amazon Marketplace on EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service). Follow the steps in this topic in order.

## Preparing your EKS Cluster

#### Granting Portworx the needed AWS permissions

{{% content "shared/portworx-install-with-kubernetes-cloud-aws-1-prepare.md" %}}

> {{% content "pre-reqs.md" %}}

Author: merged docs, they aren't shared with anything else
